ST project GIT setup

We are using the google drive to share document and datasets.
We are also going to try out using Git and GitHub to manage some of the code and to get the hang of using Git.
Git a free and open source distributed version control system designed to handle everything from small to very large projects with speed and efficiency will be ideal for us!.

First go at creating a repo
We set a blank repo in the github.com and cloned it to a local Github Desktop. 
We had one data set on Air traffic (3 GB)in NY and this with a notebook was loaded into the local Github directory.
I went to puch this to the repo but given the huge dataset size it was over the 100 mb limit we have with our free accounts.

Here are the steps we used to create the repo with a smaller dataset.

1. created a Git repo under my personal Git account called  ciaranq/ny-air-quality
2. Assigned this a Public access setting and got the URL of this repository
3. Opened local GitHub Desktop application and used my CCT Git login that we created in Class.
4. Select File/Clone repository, enter https://github.com/ciaranq/ny-air-quality.git in the URL option
5. Select a local folder to store the repository and where you could run the notebooks from
6. Select Clone at the end of the dialog.

This cloned the repo to the local directory,

To use the Git to push your changes:
7. Make whatever changes to the local file and add a reference for the commit
8. Commit to the main branch 

For the team members to get access to the repo the following steps were followed.
9. I went to the git account that owns the repository, ciaranq
10. select settings, collaborators
11. enter the emails of the collaborators and send an invite to @ciaranquinlan, @JimHigs, @JustKateKate. 
12. the team members get an email and are asked to accept the invite, this is done by logging into their git account.
14. Team members now complete steps 3-6 above and the repository of our CA will be downloaded to their local folder.
15. Team members can complete steps 7-8 to make a commit to the main branch of the repository.

Pull or fetch the repo
16. to update you local repo with the main branch use a pull request from the repository menu in Github desktop.


